How to make a submission guide (#153)
huggingface/community-events: jax-controlnet-sprint/README.md

    - [Installing JAX](#installing-jax)
    - [Running the training script](#running-the-training-script)
    - [TroubleShoot your TPU VM](#troubleshoot-your-tpu-vm)
- [How to Make a Submission](#how-to-make-a-submission)
    - [Pushing model weights and the model card to Hub](#pushing-model-weights-and-the-model-card-to-hub)
- [Creating your Space](#creating-your-space)

>     - [Writing our Application](#writing-our-application)

Reviewer: Inconsistency between "your" and "our".

Author: I addressed this

create_repo("username/my-awesome-model")
upload_folder(
    folder_path="path_to_your_model_repository",
    repo_id="username/my-awesome-model"
)
```

This will push your model to Hub. After pushing your model to Hub, you need to create the model card yourself. 
You can use graphical interface to edit the model card. 
![Edit Model Card](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/edit_model_card.png)

Every model card consists of two sections, metadata and free text. You can edit metadata from the sections in graphical UI. If you have saved your model using `save_pretrained`, you do not need to provide `pipeline_tag` and `library_name`. If not, provide `pipeline_tag`, `library_name` and dataset if it exists on Hugging Face Hub. Aside from these, you need to add the `jax-diffusers-event` to `tags` section.
```
---
license: apache-2.0
library_name: diffusers
tags:
- jax-diffusers-event
datasets:
- red_caps
pipeline_tag: text-to-image
---
```
![Edit Metadata](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/edit_metadata.png)

### Creating your Space

#### Writing our Application

> We will use [Gradio](https://gradio.app/) to build our applications. Gradio has two main APIs: `Interface` and `Blocks`. `Interface` is a high-level API that lets you create an interface with few lines of code and `Blocks` is a lower-level API that gives you more flexibility over interfaces you can build. The code will be in a file called `app.py`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will use [Gradio](https://gradio.app/) to build our applications. Gradio has two main APIs: `Interface` and `Blocks`. `Interface` is a high-level API that lets you create an interface with few lines of code, and `Blocks` is a lower-level API that gives you more flexibility over interfaces you can build. The code should be included in a file called `app.py`.
```

> Let's take a look at an example for ControlNet. The `Interface` API simply works like below 👇 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's try to create a ControlNet app as an example. The `Interface` API simply works like below 👇 
```

```python
import gradio as gr

# inference function takes prompt, negative prompt and image
def infer(prompt, negative_prompt, image):
    # implement your inference function here
    return output_image

# you need to pass inputs and outputs according to inference function
gr.Interface(fn = infer, inputs = ["text", "text", "image"], outputs = "image").launch()
```

> You can further customize your interface by passing `title`, `description` and `examples`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can customize your interface by passing `title`, `description` and `examples` to the `Interface` function.
```

```python
title = "ControlNet on Canny Filter"
description = "This is a demo on ControlNet based on canny filter."
# you need to pass your examples according to your inputs

> # each inner list is one example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# each inner list is one example, each element in the list corresponding to a component in the `inputs`.
```

        
    with gr.Tab("ControlNet with Semantic Segmentation"):
        prompt_input_seg = gr.Textbox(label="Prompt")
        negative_prompt_seg = gr.Textbox(label="Negative Prompt")
        seg_input = gr.Image(label="Image")
        seg_output = gr.Image(label="Output Image")
        submit_btn = gr.Button(value = "Submit")
        seg_inputs = [prompt_input_seg, negative_prompt_seg, seg_input]
        submit_btn.click(fn=infer_segmentation, inputs=seg_inputs, outputs=[seg_output])

demo.launch()
```

Above demo will look like below 👇 
![Gradio Blocks](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/gradio_controlnet_blocks.png)

#### Creating a Space
After our application is written, we can create a Hugging Face Space to host our app. You can go to [huggingface.co](http://huggingface.co), click on your profile on top right and select “New Space”.

![New Space](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/new_space.png)

We can name our Space, pick a license and select Space SDK as “Gradio”. 

![Space Configuration](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/space_config.png)

> After creating the Space, you can use either the instructions below to clone the repository locally, adding your files and push, OR, graphical interface to create the files and write the code in the browser.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After creating the Space, you can either use the instructions below to clone the repository locally, add your files and push, or use the graphical interface to create the files and write the code in the browser.
```

* [Webdataset](https://webdataset.github.io/webdataset/)
* [TorchData](https://github.com/pytorch/data)
* [TensorFlow Datasets](https://www.tensorflow.org/datasets/tfless_tfds)

## How to Make a Submission

To make a full submission, you need to have the following on Hugging Face Hub:
- Model repository with model weights and model card,

> - Dataset repository with dataset card,

Reviewer 2: Is dataset a must? it might not be feasible to create a hf dataset repo if using a large local dataset
should we just ask them to include dataset info in model card for that scenario?

Reviewer: I don't think having the dataset should be made mandatory. Instead, we can have that as an expectation. 

> should we just ask them to include dataset info in model card for that scenario?

+1.

- A Hugging Face Space that lets others interact with your model.

### Pushing model weights and the model card to Hub

> **If you are using the scripts provided in this sprint**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**If you are using the training script (`train_controlnet_flax.py`) provided in this directory**
```

Enabling `push_to_hub` argument in the training arguments will:
- Create a model repository locally, and remotely on Hugging Face Hub,
- Create a model card and write it to the local model repository,
- Save your model to the local model repository,
- Push the local repository to Hugging Face Hub.

> Your automatically generated model card will look like below 👇 
> ![Model Card](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/blob/main/jax_model_card.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your automatically generated model card will look like below 👇 
![Model Card](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/blob/main/jax_model_card.png).
```

> You can edit the model card to be more informative. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can edit the model card to be more informative. Model cards that are more informative than the others will carry more weight during evaluation.
```

> **If you have trained a custom model and not used the scripts**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**If you have trained a custom model and not used the script**
```

> You need to authenticate yourself with `huggingface-cli login` as instructed above. If you are using one of the available model classes by `diffusers`, save your model with `save_pretrained` method of your model. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to authenticate yourself with `huggingface-cli login` as instructed above. If you are using one of the available model classes from `diffusers`, save your model with `save_pretrained` method of your model. 
```

```python
model.save_pretrained("path_to_your_model_repository")
```

After saving your model to a folder, you can simply use below script to push your model to the Hub 👇 

```python
from huggingface_hub import create_repo, upload_folder

> create_repo("username/my-awesome-model")
> upload_folder(
>     folder_path="path_to_your_model_repository",
>     repo_id="username/my-awesome-model"
>     )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create_repo("username/my-awesome-model")
upload_folder(
    folder_path="path_to_your_model_repository",
    repo_id="username/my-awesome-model"
)
```

```

This will push your model to Hub. After pushing your model to Hub, you need to create the model card yourself. 
You can use graphical interface to edit the model card. 
![Edit Model Card](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/edit_model_card.png)

Every model card consists of two sections, metadata and free text. You can edit metadata from the sections in graphical UI. If you have saved your model using `save_pretrained`, you do not need to provide `pipeline_tag` and `library_name`. If not, provide `pipeline_tag`, `library_name` and dataset if it exists on Hugging Face Hub. Aside from these, you need to add the `jax-diffusers-event` to `tags` section.
```
---
license: apache-2.0
library_name: diffusers
tags:
- jax-diffusers-event
datasets:
- red_caps
pipeline_tag: text-to-image
---
```
![Edit Metadata](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/edit_metadata.png)

> ### Creating your Space

Reviewer 2: Are you going to add a section here? did I review too early? 😅

```python
model.save_pretrained("path_to_your_model_repository")
```

After saving your model to a folder, you can simply use below script to push your model to the Hub 👇 

```python
from huggingface_hub import create_repo, upload_folder

create_repo("username/my-awesome-model")
upload_folder(
    folder_path="path_to_your_model_repository",
    repo_id="username/my-awesome-model"
)
```

This will push your model to Hub. After pushing your model to Hub, you need to create the model card yourself. 
You can use graphical interface to edit the model card. 
![Edit Model Card](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/edit_model_card.png)

Every model card consists of two sections, metadata and free text. You can edit metadata from the sections in graphical UI. If you have saved your model using `save_pretrained`, you do not need to provide `pipeline_tag` and `library_name`. If not, provide `pipeline_tag`, `library_name` and dataset if it exists on Hugging Face Hub. Aside from these, you need to add the `jax-diffusers-event` to `tags` section.
```
---
license: apache-2.0
library_name: diffusers
tags:
- jax-diffusers-event
datasets:

> - red_caps

Reviewer: Maybe add a comment somewhere that the participants should change this accordingly?

![Spaces Landing](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/repository_landing.png)

To upload your application file, pick “Add File” and drag and drop your file.

![New Space Landing](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/add_file.png)

Lastly, we have to create a file called `requirements.txt` and add requirements of our project. Make sure to install below versions of jax, diffusers and other dependencies like below. 

```
-f https://storage.googleapis.com/jax-releases/jax_cuda_releases.html
jax[cuda11_cudnn805]
jaxlib
git+https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers@main
opencv-python
transformers
flax
```

We will give you GPU grant so your application can run on GPU.

We have a leaderboard hosted [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/jax-diffusers-event/leaderboard) and we will be distributing prizes from this leaderboard. To make your Space show up on the leaderboard, simply edit `README.md` of your Space to have the tag `jax-diffusers-event` under tags like below 👇 
```
---
title: Canny Coyo1m
emoji: 💜 
...
tags:
- jax-diffusers-event
---
```

> We will host our models and Spaces under [this organization](https://huggingface.co/keras-dreambooth). You can carry your models and Spaces on the settings tab under `Rename or transfer this model` and select `keras-dreambooth` from the dropdown. 

Reviewer 3: Do we have one for JAX or reuse the one for Keras?
